NGINX Ingress Controller Configuration guide update (#2864)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/app-protect/configuration.md

---
title: Configuration

description: "This document describes how to configure the NGINX App Protect module."
weight: 1900
doctypes: [""]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-578"
---

> > Check out the complete [NGINX Ingress Controller with App Protect example resources on GitHub](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.3.0/examples/appprotect).

Reviewer: This should also include the Custom Resource sample: https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/waf

Reviewer: Still open

---
title: Configuration

description: "This document describes how to configure the NGINX App Protect module."
weight: 1900
doctypes: [""]
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-578"
---

> > Check out the complete [NGINX Ingress Controller with App Protect example resources on GitHub](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.3.0/examples/appprotect). 
> Refer to [Custom Resource](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/waf) for Custom Resource sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Check out the complete NGINX Ingress Controller with App Protect example resources on GitHub for [VirtualServer resources](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/waf) and for [Ingress resources](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.3.0/examples/appprotect).
```

## Global Configuration

The NGINX Ingress Controller has a set of global configuration parameters that align with those available in the NGINX App Protect module. See [ConfigMap keys](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/configmap-resource/#modules) for the complete list. The App Protect parameters use the `app-protect*` prefix.

> Check out the complete [NGINX Ingress Controller with App Protect example resources on GitHub](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.3.0/examples/appprotect).

## Enabling App Protect

> You can enable and configure NGINX App Protect on the Custom Resources (VirtualServer, VirtualServerRoute) or on the Ingress-resource basis. Refer to [Custom Resource](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/policy-resource/#waf) examples for more details.
> 
> Refer to [Custom Resource](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/waf) for Custom Resource sample.
> 
> To configure NGINX App Protect on an Ingress resource, you would apply the [App Protect annotations](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#app-protect) to each desired resource.

Reviewer 2: From what I can see, a full walkthrough for the CRDs is provided from lines 241. I don't see a full walkthrough for Ingress resources. What about something like this here: 

```suggestion
You can enable and configure NGINX App Protect on the Custom Resources (VirtualServer, VirtualServerRoute) or on the Ingress-resource basis. 

To configure NGINX App Protect on a VirtualServer resource, you would create a Policy Custom Resource referencing the APPolicy Custom Resource, and add this to the VirtualServer definition. See the documentation on the [App Protect WAF Policy](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/policy-resource/#waf).

To configure NGINX App Protect on an Ingress resource, you would apply the [App Protect annotations](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#app-protect) to each desired resource.
```

Author: adding this info. here

## App Protect Policies

> 

Author: added your previous comment here. please review.

> 

Reviewer 2: I don't see these changes?

> 

Author: added these changes..please review

> Check out the complete [NGINX Ingress Controller with App Protect example resources on GitHub](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/v2.3.0/examples/appprotect).

## Enabling App Protect

You can enable and configure NGINX App Protect on the Custom Resources (VirtualServer, VirtualServerRoute) or on the Ingress-resource basis. Refer to [Custom Resource](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/policy-resource/#waf) examples for more details.

> To do so, you can apply the [App Protect annotations](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#app-protect) to each desired resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To configure NGINX App Protect on an Ingress resource, you would apply the [App Protect annotations](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#app-protect) to each desired resource.
```

> ## Enable App Protect for an Ingress Resource

Reviewer: Enabling App Protect

We need to remove "for an Ingress Resource"

> You can enable and configure NGINX App Protect on the Custom Resources (VirtualServer, VirtualServerRoute) or on the Ingress-resource basis.

Reviewer: This should link to the Custom Resource examples.
If this is not documented, it needs to be.

It is lightly documented here: https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/policy-resource/#waf

Author: done

## Enabling App Protect

You can enable and configure NGINX App Protect on the Custom Resources (VirtualServer, VirtualServerRoute) or on the Ingress-resource basis. Refer to [Custom Resource](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/policy-resource/#waf) examples for more details.
To configure NGINX App Protect on an Ingress resource, you would apply the [App Protect annotations](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#app-protect) to each desired resource.

> 

Reviewer: I am still missing / not finding a configuration example for a VirtualServer resource.
I won't let this go with out that.  Sorry.

All the example here and below are focused on the use of the Ingress Resource and outside of a pointer to the examples on line 22, the customer has the perception that only the Ingress resource is supported.
That one line call-out is not good enough.

Each place that the description outlines using the Ingress Resource there needs to be a corresponding description for the VirtualServer Resource.

Author: I've added the reference to VirtualServer Resource here (line 12) according to your last comment.

Do you want me to add the reference link here as well?

Reviewer: Sorry, I was not clear. I am not referring to the samples link.

I am referring to the walkthrough itself.
The walkthrough is exclusive to using the Ingress resource.  Which leads the customer to believe this is the only method and a simple link that can be easily overlooked does not repair that perception.

There needs to be a walkthrough for both.

We place a high value emphasis on the CRDs, and thus want to highlight them first.

Author: Hi @liorm39 , could you please help here with this information?

Author: @brianehlert, I've added the Virtual Server example and Configuration details. Please review.

It contains violations related to OpenAPI set to blocking (enforced).

### Types of OpenAPI References

There are different ways of referencing OpenAPI Specification files. The configuration is similar to [External References](#external-references).

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

## Configuration in NGINX Ingress Controller

1. Copy the API security policy `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json` to a different file so that it can be edited.
2. Add the reference to the desired OpenAPI file.
3. Make other custom changes if needed (e.g. enable Data Guard protection).
4. Use a tool to convert the result to YAML. there are many, for example: https://www.json2yaml.com/

> 5. Add the YAML properties to create an `APPolicy` Custom Resource putting the policy itself (as in step 4) within the `spec` property of the Custom Resource. 6. Refer to [App Protect Policies](#app-protect-policies) section above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Add the YAML properties to create an `APPolicy` Custom Resource putting the policy itself (as in step 4) within the `spec` property of the Custom Resource.
6. Refer to [App Protect Policies](#app-protect-policies) section above.
```

* Methods
* URLs
* Parameters
* JSON profiles 

An OpenAPI-ready policy template is provided with the NGINX App Protect WAF packages and is located in: `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json`

It contains violations related to OpenAPI set to blocking (enforced).

### Types of OpenAPI References

There are different ways of referencing OpenAPI Specification files. The configuration is similar to [External References](#external-references).

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

**Note**:  You need to make sure that the server where the resource files are located is always available when you are compiling your policy.

> 

Reviewer 3: Perhaps instead suggest an offline conversion option, as customers may not be comfortable converting their security policy online. Perhaps suggest the `yq` utility to do this. https://github.com/mikefarah/yq

> 

Author: Rephrased step 4 as below:
4. Use a tool to convert the result to YAML. There are many, for example: [`yq` utility](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq).

> 

Author: done

##### Example Configuration

In this example, we are adding an OpenAPI Specification file reference to `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.yaml` using the link ` :https://raw.githubusercontent.com/aws-samples/api-gateway-secure-pet-store/master/src/main/resources/swagger.yaml`. This will configure allowed data types for `query_int` and `query_str` parameters values.

> **Policy configuration:**

Reviewer 4: The example misses the APPolicy parts in step 5 above:
apiVersion: appprotect.f5.com/v1beta1
kind: APPolicy
metadata:
  name: petstore_api_security_policy
spec:
  policy:
    name: petstore_api_security_policy
    description: ...
(etc.)

~~~

Content of the referenced file `myapi.yaml`:

~~~yaml
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
  title: 'Primitive data types'
  description: 'Primitive data types.'
  version: '2.5.0'
servers:
  - url: http://localhost
paths:
  /query:
    get:
      tags:
        - query_int_str
      description: query_int_str
      operationId: query_int_str
      parameters:
        - name: query_int
          in: query
          required: false
          allowEmptyValue: false
          schema:
            type: integer
        - name: query_str
          in: query
          required: false
          allowEmptyValue: true
          schema:
            type: string           
      responses:
        200:
          description: OK
        404:
          description: NotFound
~~~

In this case the following request will trigger an `Illegal parameter data type` violation, as we expect to have an integer value in the `query_int` parameter:

```
http://localhost/query?query_int=abc
```

The request will be blocked.

The link option is also available in the `openApiFileReference` property and synonymous with the one above in `open-api-files`

**Note**: `openApiFileReference` is not an array.

> ##### Example Configuration

Reviewer 4: Everything from this point below is not relevant for NIC. Please remove.

        }
    ]
}
```

Content of the referenced file `myapi2.json`:

~~~json
{
    "openapi": "3.0.1",
    "info": {
        "title": "Primitive data types2",
        "description": "Primitive data types.",
        "version": "2.5.1"
    },
    "servers": [
        {
            "url": "http://localhost"
        }
    ],
    "paths": {
        "/query": {
            "get": {
                "tags": [
                    "query_bool"
                ],
                "description": "query_bool",
                "operationId": "query_bool",
                "parameters": [
                    {
                        "name": "query_bool",
                        "in": "query",
                        "required": false,
                        "schema": {
                            "type": "boolean"
                        }
                    }
                ],
                "responses": {
                    "200": {
                        "description": "OK"
                    },
                    "404": {
                        "description": "NotFound"
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
~~~

> In this case the following request will trigger an `Illegal repeated parameter name` violation, as the OpenAPI Specification doesn't allow repeated parameters. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In this case, the following request will trigger an `Illegal repeated parameter name` violation, as the OpenAPI Specification doesn't allow repeated parameters. 
```

* Methods
* URLs
* Parameters
* JSON profiles 

An OpenAPI-ready policy template is provided with the NGINX App Protect WAF packages and is located in: `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json`

It contains violations related to OpenAPI set to blocking (enforced).

### Types of OpenAPI References

There are different ways of referencing OpenAPI Specification files. The configuration is similar to [External References](#external-references).

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

## Configuration in NGINX Ingress Controller

> 

Reviewer 4: Add a line: "These are the typical steps to deploy an OpenAPI protection Policy in NGINX Ingress Controller:"

Author: done

          name: VIOL_PARAMETER_EMPTY_VALUE
        - block: true
          description: Illegal repeated parameter name
          name: VIOL_PARAMETER_REPEATED

~~~

Content of the referenced file `myapi.yaml`:

~~~yaml
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
  title: 'Primitive data types'
  description: 'Primitive data types.'
  version: '2.5.0'
servers:
  - url: http://localhost
paths:
  /query:
    get:
      tags:
        - query_int_str
      description: query_int_str
      operationId: query_int_str
      parameters:
        - name: query_int
          in: query
          required: false
          allowEmptyValue: false
          schema:
            type: integer
        - name: query_str
          in: query
          required: false
          allowEmptyValue: true
          schema:
            type: string           
      responses:
        200:
          description: OK
        404:
          description: NotFound
~~~

In this case, the following request will trigger an `Illegal parameter data type` violation, as we expect to have an integer value in the `query_int` parameter:

```
http://localhost/query?query_int=abc
```

The request will be blocked.

> The link option is also available in the `openApiFileReference` property and synonymous with the one above in `open-api-files`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `link` option is also available in the `openApiFileReference` property and is synonymous with the `open-api-files` property as seen in the App Protect policy example above.
```

Author: done

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

## Configuration in NGINX Ingress Controller

These are the typical steps to deploy an OpenAPI protection Policy in NGINX Ingress Controller:

1. Copy the API security policy `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json` to a different file so that it can be edited.
2. Add the reference to the desired OpenAPI file.
3. Make other custom changes if needed (e.g. enable Data Guard protection).
4. Use a tool to convert the result to YAML. There are many, for example: [`yq` utility](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq).
5. Add the YAML properties to create an `APPolicy` Custom Resource putting the policy itself (as in step 4) within the `spec` property of the Custom Resource.
6. Refer to [App Protect Policies](#app-protect-policies) section above.

> 7. Add an annotation referencing that `APPolicy` resource and apply that resource. See the same section above.

Reviewer 3: Thinking about this - @brianehlert in your opinion, should we be avoiding using the term "annotation" because it has special meaning in Kubernetes, however irrelevant in this context?

Reviewer: To your point - 'annotation' does mean something specific in K8s.
It is specific to the Ingress resource.
If the step is specific to the Ingress resource referencing the policy that is valid.

But then that also means the example is specific to using the Ingress resource and we need to also document the VirtualService resource.

Reviewer 3: So, shouldn't the steps above go further into the configuration? Add a step to create a `Policy` object, then attach that `Policy`object to a `VirtualServer` resource?

Reviewer: Any walkthrough should be 'complete'
There might be a step that forks and then comes back together.  But that should be called out.

Author: @aknot242 where do we add this additional step in the above sequence? 

create a Policy object, then attach that Policyobject to a VirtualServer resource

Reviewer 3: @rranghar I am thinking the additional step(s) would replace the current step 7, as the current step it in itself does not go into attaching the `APPolicy` to a `Policy` resource, then attaching that policy resource to a `VirtualServer` resource.

Author: sure, replaced step 7 with additional info. as below:

7. Create a `Policy` object, then attach that `Policy` object to a `VirtualServer` resource.

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

## Configuration in NGINX Ingress Controller

These are the typical steps to deploy an OpenAPI protection Policy in NGINX Ingress Controller:

1. Copy the API security policy `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json` to a different file so that it can be edited.
2. Add the reference to the desired OpenAPI file.
3. Make other custom changes if needed (e.g. enable Data Guard protection).
4. Use a tool to convert the result to YAML. There are many, for example: [`yq` utility](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq).
5. Add the YAML properties to create an `APPolicy` Custom Resource putting the policy itself (as in step 4) within the `spec` property of the Custom Resource.

> 6. Refer to [App Protect Policies](#app-protect-policies) section above.

Reviewer 3: Is this really a step on its own? It just seems like a footnote belonging to the previous step.

Author: Moved this step to previous step (5).

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

## Configuration in NGINX Ingress Controller

These are the typical steps to deploy an OpenAPI protection Policy in NGINX Ingress Controller:

1. Copy the API security policy `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json` to a different file so that it can be edited.
2. Add the reference to the desired OpenAPI file.
3. Make other custom changes if needed (e.g. enable Data Guard protection).
4. Use a tool to convert the result to YAML. There are many, for example: [`yq` utility](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq).
5. Add the YAML properties to create an `APPolicy` Custom Resource putting the policy itself (as in step 4) within the `spec` property of the Custom Resource. Refer to [App Protect Policies](#app-protect-policies) section above.

> 6. Create a `Policy` object which references the `APPolicy` Customer Resource as in [this example](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/blob/main/examples/custom-resources/waf/waf.yaml).

Reviewer 2: Typo

```suggestion
6. Create a `Policy` object which references the `APPolicy` Custom Resource as in [this example](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/blob/main/examples/custom-resources/waf/waf.yaml).
```

        - name: query_str
          in: query
          required: false
          allowEmptyValue: true
          schema:
            type: string           
      responses:
        200:
          description: OK
        404:
          description: NotFound
~~~

In this case, the following request will trigger an `Illegal parameter data type` violation, as we expect to have an integer value in the `query_int` parameter:

```
http://localhost/query?query_int=abc
```

The request will be blocked.

The `link` option is also available in the `openApiFileReference` property and is synonymous with the `open-api-files` property as seen in the App Protect policy example above.

**Note**: `openApiFileReference` is not an array.

## Configuration in NGINX Plus Ingress Controller using Virtual Server Resource
In this example we deploy the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller with NGINX App Protect, a simple web application and then configure load balancing and WAF protection for that application using the VirtualServer resource.

Refer to the below path to access these files :
```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/

> ```

Reviewer 2: Note: This example, and the files referenced, can be found [here](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/custom-resources/waf).

You can find the [Virtual Server example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/webapp.yaml) here.

## Prerequisites

1. Follow the installation [instructions](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/installation) to deploy the Ingress Controller with NGINX App Protect.
2. Save the public IP address of the Ingress Controller into a shell variable:
   ```
    $ IC_IP=XXX.YYY.ZZZ.III
   ```

3. Save the HTTP port of the Ingress Controller into a shell variable:
   ```
    $ IC_HTTP_PORT=<port number>
    ```

### Step 1. Deploy a Web Application

Please note that before starting, the user needs to clone the repo and cd into the `examples/custom-resources/waf/` directory. 

Create the application deployment and service:
  ```

>   $ kubectl apply -f webapp.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/webapp.yaml
```

  ```

### Step 2. Deploy the AP Policy

1. Create the syslog service and pod for the App Protect security logs:
    ```

>    $ kubectl apply -f syslog.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/syslog.yaml
```

   ```

2. Create the User Defined Signature, App Protect policy and log configuration:

>     ```
>       $ kubectl apply -f ap-apple-uds.yaml
>       $ kubectl apply -f ap-dataguard-alarm-policy.yaml
>      $ kubectl apply -f ap-logconf.yaml
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```
      $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/ap-apple-uds.yaml
      $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/ap-dataguard-alarm-policy.yaml
      $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/ap-logconf.yaml
    ```
```

### Step 3 - Deploy the WAF Policy

Create the WAF policy
 ``` 

> $ kubectl apply -f waf.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/waf.yaml
```

  ```
  Note the App Protect configuration settings in the Policy resource. They enable WAF protection by configuring App Protect with the policy and log configuration created in the previous step.

### Step 4 - Configure Load Balancing

1. Create the VirtualServer Resource:
    ```

>     $ kubectl apply -f virtual-server.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/v2.3.0/examples/custom-resources/waf/virtual-server.yaml
```

**Note**: Any update of an OpenAPI Specification file referenced in the policy will not trigger a policy compilation. This action needs to be done actively by reloading the NGINX configuration.

#### URL Reference

URL reference is the method of referencing an external source by providing its full URL.

Make sure to configure certificates prior to using the HTTPS protocol - see the [External References](#https-reference) for details.

## Configuration in NGINX Ingress Controller

These are the typical steps to deploy an OpenAPI protection Policy in NGINX Ingress Controller:

1. Copy the API security policy `/etc/app_protect/conf/NginxApiSecurityPolicy.json` to a different file so that it can be edited.
2. Add the reference to the desired OpenAPI file.
3. Make other custom changes if needed (e.g. enable Data Guard protection).
4. Use a tool to convert the result to YAML. There are many, for example: [`yq` utility](https://github.com/mikefarah/yq).
5. Add the YAML properties to create an `APPolicy` Custom Resource putting the policy itself (as in step 4) within the `spec` property of the Custom Resource. Refer to [App Protect Policies](#app-protect-policies) section above.

> 6. Create a `Policy` object, then attach that `Policy` object to a `VirtualServer` resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Create a `Policy` object which references the `APPolicy` Customer Resource as in [this example](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/blob/main/examples/custom-resources/waf/waf.yaml). 
7. Finally, attach the `Policy` object to a `VirtualServer` resource as in [this example](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/blob/main/examples/custom-resources/waf/virtual-server.yaml).
```

Author: done
